readme.md, before:


# 🤖 AI Chatbot - Full Stack Application

A modern, full-stack chatbot application built with React (TypeScript) frontend and FastAPI backend, featuring conversation management, real-time chat, and AI-powered responses using OpenAI's GPT model.

## ✨ Features

- 💬 **Real-time Chat Interface** - Seamless conversation with AI assistant
- 📚 **Conversation History** - All chats are saved and retrievable
- 🗑️ **Delete Conversations** - Remove unwanted conversation history
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Conversation list updates automatically every 30 seconds
- 👤 **User Avatars** - Visual distinction between user and AI messages
- 📱 **Responsive Design** - Works on desktop and mobile devices
- 🎨 **Modern UI** - Clean, professional interface with custom CSS styling

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with TypeScript
- **Custom CSS** (no external UI frameworks)
- **Responsive Design** with modern gradients and animations

### Backend
- **FastAPI** (Python web framework)
- **SQLite** database for conversation storage
- **OpenAI API** for AI responses
- **CORS** enabled for frontend communication

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before running the application, make sure you have:

- **Node.js** (v16 or higher) and **npm**
- **Python** (v3.8 or higher)
- **OpenAI API Key** (get one from [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/))

## 🚀 Quick Start

The easiest way to run the entire application is using the provided start script:

```bash
./start.sh
```

This script will:
- 🔧 Install Poetry if not already installed
- 📦 Install all backend dependencies using Poetry
- 📦 Install all frontend dependencies using npm
- 🚀 Start both backend and frontend servers
- 🔄 Provide graceful shutdown with Ctrl+C

### Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up each part manually:

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repository-url>
cd FastAPI-React-TypeSciript-chatbot
```

### 2. Backend Setup

#### Option A: Using Poetry (Recommended)
```bash
cd backend
poetry install
poetry run uvicorn main_sqlite:app --reload
```

#### Option B: Using pip
```bash
cd backend
```

#### Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

#### Activate Virtual Environment
```bash
# On macOS/Linux:
source .venv/bin/activate

# On Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

#### Install Python Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
```

#### Set Up Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit the `.env` file and add your OpenAI API key:
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
```

### 3. Frontend Setup

#### Navigate to Frontend Directory
```bash
cd ../frontend
```

#### Install Node.js Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

## 🏃‍♂️ Running the Application

You need to run both the backend and frontend servers simultaneously.

### 1. Start the Backend Server

Open a terminal, navigate to the backend directory, and run:

```bash
cd backend
source .venv/bin/activate  # Activate virtual environment
python main_sqlite.py
```

The backend server will start on: **http://localhost:8000**

You should see output like:
```
INFO:     Started server process [12345]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:database_sqlite:Successfully connected to SQLite database: chatbot.db
INFO:database_sqlite:SQLite tables created successfully
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:8000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

### 2. Start the Frontend Server

Open a **new terminal**, navigate to the frontend directory, and run:

```bash
cd frontend
npm start
```

The frontend application will start on: **http://localhost:3000**

You should see output like:
```
Compiled successfully!

You can now view frontend in the browser.
  Local:            http://localhost:3000
  On Your Network:  http://10.x.x.x:3000
```

### 3. Access the Application

Open your web browser and go to: **http://localhost:3000**

## 📖 Usage

1. **Start Chatting**: Type your message in the input field and press Enter or click Send
2. **View History**: All conversations appear in the left sidebar
3. **Switch Conversations**: Click on any conversation in the sidebar to resume it
4. **Delete Conversations**: Hover over a conversation and click the delete button (🗑️)
5. **New Conversation**: Click the "➕ New" button to start a fresh conversation
6. **Auto-refresh**: The conversation list automatically updates every 30 seconds

## 🔧 API Endpoints

The backend provides the following REST API endpoints:

- `GET /` - Health check
- `POST /chat` - Send a message to the AI
- `POST /conversations` - Create a new conversation
- `GET /conversations/user/{user_id}` - Get all conversations for a user
- `GET /conversations/{conversation_id}/messages` - Get messages for a conversation
- `GET /conversations/{conversation_id}/full` - Get full conversation with messages
- `DELETE /conversations/{conversation_id}` - Delete a conversation

## 📁 Project Structure

```
FastAPI-React/
├── backend/
│   ├── .venv/                    # Python virtual environment
│   ├── .env                      # Environment variables
│   ├── main_sqlite.py           # FastAPI application
│   ├── database_sqlite.py       # Database operations
│   ├── chat_service_sqlite.py   # OpenAI service
│   ├── models.py                # Pydantic models
│   ├── config_sqlite.py         # Configuration
│   ├── requirements_sqlite.txt  # Python dependencies
│   └── chatbot.db               # SQLite database (auto-created)
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/          # React components
│   │   │   ├── ChatBot.tsx      # Main chat interface
│   │   │   ├── MessageBubble.tsx # Individual messages
│   │   │   ├── MessageInput.tsx  # Input component
│   │   │   ├── TypingIndicator.tsx # Typing animation
│   │   │   └── AllConversations.tsx # Sidebar history
│   │   ├── types.ts             # TypeScript types
│   │   ├── api.ts               # API service
│   │   └── index.css            # Styles
│   ├── public/
│   └── package.json             # Node dependencies
└── README.md
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Backend Development
- The backend uses **SQLite** for local development
- Database tables are created automatically on first run
- All conversation data is stored locally in `chatbot.db`
- FastAPI provides automatic API documentation at `http://localhost:8000/docs`

### Frontend Development
- Built with **Create React App** and TypeScript
- Uses custom CSS with modern design patterns
- Responsive design works on all screen sizes
- Hot reload enabled for development

## 🔒 Environment Variables

### Backend (.env)
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
```

### Frontend
No additional environment variables needed - the frontend connects to the backend at `http://localhost:8000` by default.

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Backend won't start**
   - Make sure virtual environment is activated: `source .venv/bin/activate`
   - Check if OpenAI API key is set in `.env` file
   - Verify all dependencies are installed: `pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt`
   - Ensure port 8000 is not in use: `lsof -ti:8000`

2. **Frontend can't connect to backend**
   - Ensure backend is running on port 8000
   - Check CORS settings in FastAPI (should allow localhost:3000)
   - Verify backend health: visit `http://localhost:8000` in browser

3. **OpenAI API errors**
   - Verify your API key is valid and has credits
   - Check OpenAI API status at https://status.openai.com/
   - Ensure you have access to GPT models

4. **Virtual environment issues**
   - Make sure you're in the backend directory
   - Try recreating the virtual environment:
     ```bash
     rm -rf .venv
     python -m venv .venv
     source .venv/bin/activate
     pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
     ```

### Port Conflicts
If you need to change the default ports:

**Backend**: Edit `main_sqlite.py` and change the port in `uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)`
**Frontend**: Set `PORT=3001` environment variable before running `npm start`

### Database Issues
- SQLite database is created automatically in the backend directory
- If you encounter database errors, delete `chatbot.db` and restart the backend
- Check file permissions on the backend directory

## 🚀 Production Deployment

### Backend
1. Use a production WSGI server like **Gunicorn** or **Uvicorn**
2. Set up environment variables securely
3. Consider using PostgreSQL for production database
4. Enable HTTPS and proper security headers

### Frontend
1. Build the production version: `npm run build`
2. Serve static files with **Nginx** or **Apache**
3. Update API base URL for production backend

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📞 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue in the repository.

---

**Happy Chatting! 🎉**
   ```

2. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

3. Create a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

4. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. Create environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

6. Edit `.env` file with your credentials:
   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   MYSQL_HOST=localhost
   MYSQL_USER=root
   MYSQL_PASSWORD=your_mysql_password
   MYSQL_DATABASE=chatbot_db
   MYSQL_PORT=3306
   ```

7. Run the backend:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

#### Option B: SQLite Version (Easy Setup - Recommended for Development)

1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Create a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
   ```

4. Create environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env_sqlite.example .env
   ```

5. Edit `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:
   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   DATABASE_URL=chatbot.db
   ```

6. Run the backend:
   ```bash
   python main_sqlite.py
   ```

## Quick Start

### Option A: MySQL Version
```bash
./start.sh
```

### Option B: SQLite Version (No Database Server Required)
```bash
./start_sqlite.sh
```

Both options will start the backend and frontend servers automatically.

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

### Chat
- `POST /chat` - Send a message and get AI response
- `GET /conversations/{id}/messages` - Get conversation history
- `POST /conversations` - Create a new conversation

### Health Check
- `GET /` - API status check

## Usage

1. Start both backend and frontend servers
2. Open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser
3. Start chatting with the AI assistant
4. Conversations are automatically saved to the database
5. Use "New Chat" to start a fresh conversation

## Database Schema

### conversations
- `id` (INT, PRIMARY KEY)
- `user_id` (VARCHAR)
- `created_at` (TIMESTAMP)

### messages
- `id` (INT, PRIMARY KEY)
- `conversation_id` (INT, FOREIGN KEY)
- `role` (ENUM: 'user', 'assistant')
- `content` (TEXT)
- `created_at` (TIMESTAMP)

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

Backend (with auto-reload):
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
```

Frontend (with hot reload):
```bash
npm start
```

### Building for Production

Frontend:
```bash
npm run build
```

Backend:
```bash
# The FastAPI app can be deployed using various methods
# Example with Gunicorn:
pip install gunicorn
gunicorn main:app -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker
```

## Customization

### Modifying AI Behavior
Edit the system message in `backend/chat_service.py`:
```python
formatted_messages = [
    {"role": "system", "content": "Your custom system message here"}
]
```

### Styling Changes
The application uses custom CSS for styling. You can modify the styles in `src/index.css` to customize the appearance:

- `.chat-container` - Main chat layout
- `.chat-header` - Header styling
- `.message-bubble` - Message containers
- `.message-content` - Individual message styling
- `.input-area` - Input section styling

The CSS includes responsive design breakpoints for mobile devices.

### Adding Features
- User authentication
- File uploads
- Voice messages
- Multiple conversation threads
- Message reactions

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CORS Errors**: Make sure the backend CORS settings include your frontend URL
2. **Database Connection**: Verify MySQL is running and credentials are correct
3. **OpenAI API**: Check your API key and usage limits
4. **Port Conflicts**: Ensure ports 3000 and 8000 are available

### Logs
- Backend logs appear in the terminal where you run `python main.py`
- Frontend errors appear in the browser console
- Database errors are logged by the backend

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project as a starting point for your own chatbot applications.

Commit message:

📝 Update all documentation files with enhanced content and modern formatting
- Updated main README.md with badges, enhanced features, and Poetry integration
- Enhanced backend.md with Poetry setup, environment variables, and modern architecture
- Improved frontend.md with rich content rendering details and dependencies
- Updated fullstack.md with comprehensive architecture diagram and flow
- Modernized backend/README.md with features, quick start, and setup instructions
- Enhanced frontend/README.md with feature highlights and dependency information
- Added emojis and improved formatting across all documentation
- Included information about tables, code blocks, and math equation support

readme.md, after:


# 🤖 FastAPI-React TypeScript Chatbot

A modern, full-stack chatbot application built with React (TypeScript) frontend and FastAPI backend, featuring conversation management, real-time chat, and AI-powered responses using OpenAI's GPT model.

[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/VimeansethThorng/fastapi-react-typescript-chatbot?style=social)](https://github.com/VimeansethThorng/fastapi-react-typescript-chatbot)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/VimeansethThorng/fastapi-react-typescript-chatbot)](https://github.com/VimeansethThorng/fastapi-react-typescript-chatbot/blob/main/LICENSE)

## ✨ Features

- 💬 **Real-time Chat Interface** - Seamless conversation with AI assistant
- 📚 **Conversation History** - All chats are saved and retrievable  
- 🗑️ **Delete Conversations** - Remove unwanted conversation history
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Conversation list updates automatically every 30 seconds
- 👤 **User Avatars** - Visual distinction between user and AI messages
- 📱 **Responsive Design** - Works on desktop and mobile devices
- 🎨 **Modern UI** - Clean, professional interface with custom CSS styling
- 📊 **Rich Content Support** - Tables, code blocks, and mathematical equations
- 🚀 **One-command Setup** - Start entire stack with a single script
- 📦 **Poetry Integration** - Modern Python dependency management

## 🏗️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with TypeScript
- **React Markdown** with syntax highlighting
- **KaTeX** for mathematical equations
- **Custom CSS** with responsive design
- **Modern UI Components** with animations

### Backend  
- **FastAPI** (Python web framework)
- **Poetry** for dependency management
- **SQLite** database for conversation storage
- **OpenAI API** for AI responses
- **CORS** enabled for frontend communication
- **Pydantic** for data validation

### Development & Deployment
- **GitHub CLI** for repository management
- **Hot reload** for development
- **Environment variables** with `.env.example`
- **Comprehensive `.gitignore`**

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before running the application, make sure you have:

- **Node.js** (v16 or higher) and **npm**
- **Python** (v3.8.1 or higher) 
- **Poetry** (will be auto-installed by start script)
- **OpenAI API Key** (get one from [OpenAI Platform](https://platform.openai.com/))

## 🚀 Quick Start

The easiest way to run the entire application is using the provided start script:

```bash
./start.sh
```

This script will:
- 🔧 Install Poetry if not already installed
- 📦 Install all backend dependencies using Poetry
- 📦 Install all frontend dependencies using npm
- 🚀 Start both backend and frontend servers
- 🔄 Provide graceful shutdown with Ctrl+C

### Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up each part manually:

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone <your-repository-url>
cd FastAPI-React-TypeSciript-chatbot
```

### 2. Backend Setup

#### Option A: Using Poetry (Recommended)
```bash
cd backend
poetry install
poetry run uvicorn main_sqlite:app --reload
```

#### Option B: Using pip
```bash
cd backend
```

#### Create Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

#### Activate Virtual Environment
```bash
# On macOS/Linux:
source .venv/bin/activate

# On Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
```

#### Install Python Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
```

#### Set Up Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit the `.env` file and add your OpenAI API key:
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
```

### 3. Frontend Setup

#### Navigate to Frontend Directory
```bash
cd ../frontend
```

#### Install Node.js Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

## 🏃‍♂️ Running the Application

You need to run both the backend and frontend servers simultaneously.

### 1. Start the Backend Server

Open a terminal, navigate to the backend directory, and run:

```bash
cd backend
source .venv/bin/activate  # Activate virtual environment
python main_sqlite.py
```

The backend server will start on: **http://localhost:8000**

You should see output like:
```
INFO:     Started server process [12345]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:database_sqlite:Successfully connected to SQLite database: chatbot.db
INFO:database_sqlite:SQLite tables created successfully
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0:8000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

### 2. Start the Frontend Server

Open a **new terminal**, navigate to the frontend directory, and run:

```bash
cd frontend
npm start
```

The frontend application will start on: **http://localhost:3000**

You should see output like:
```
Compiled successfully!

You can now view frontend in the browser.
  Local:            http://localhost:3000
  On Your Network:  http://10.x.x.x:3000
```

### 3. Access the Application

Open your web browser and go to: **http://localhost:3000**

## 📖 Usage

1. **Start Chatting**: Type your message in the input field and press Enter or click Send
2. **View History**: All conversations appear in the left sidebar
3. **Switch Conversations**: Click on any conversation in the sidebar to resume it
4. **Delete Conversations**: Hover over a conversation and click the delete button (🗑️)
5. **New Conversation**: Click the "➕ New" button to start a fresh conversation
6. **Auto-refresh**: The conversation list automatically updates every 30 seconds

## 🔧 API Endpoints

The backend provides the following REST API endpoints:

- `GET /` - Health check
- `POST /chat` - Send a message to the AI
- `POST /conversations` - Create a new conversation
- `GET /conversations/user/{user_id}` - Get all conversations for a user
- `GET /conversations/{conversation_id}/messages` - Get messages for a conversation
- `GET /conversations/{conversation_id}/full` - Get full conversation with messages
- `DELETE /conversations/{conversation_id}` - Delete a conversation

## 📁 Project Structure

```
FastAPI-React/
├── backend/
│   ├── .venv/                    # Python virtual environment
│   ├── .env                      # Environment variables
│   ├── main_sqlite.py           # FastAPI application
│   ├── database_sqlite.py       # Database operations
│   ├── chat_service_sqlite.py   # OpenAI service
│   ├── models.py                # Pydantic models
│   ├── config_sqlite.py         # Configuration
│   ├── requirements_sqlite.txt  # Python dependencies
│   └── chatbot.db               # SQLite database (auto-created)
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/          # React components
│   │   │   ├── ChatBot.tsx      # Main chat interface
│   │   │   ├── MessageBubble.tsx # Individual messages
│   │   │   ├── MessageInput.tsx  # Input component
│   │   │   ├── TypingIndicator.tsx # Typing animation
│   │   │   └── AllConversations.tsx # Sidebar history
│   │   ├── types.ts             # TypeScript types
│   │   ├── api.ts               # API service
│   │   └── index.css            # Styles
│   ├── public/
│   └── package.json             # Node dependencies
└── README.md
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Backend Development
- The backend uses **SQLite** for local development
- Database tables are created automatically on first run
- All conversation data is stored locally in `chatbot.db`
- FastAPI provides automatic API documentation at `http://localhost:8000/docs`

### Frontend Development
- Built with **Create React App** and TypeScript
- Uses custom CSS with modern design patterns
- Responsive design works on all screen sizes
- Hot reload enabled for development

## 🔒 Environment Variables

### Backend (.env)
```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
```

### Frontend
No additional environment variables needed - the frontend connects to the backend at `http://localhost:8000` by default.

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Backend won't start**
   - Make sure virtual environment is activated: `source .venv/bin/activate`
   - Check if OpenAI API key is set in `.env` file
   - Verify all dependencies are installed: `pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt`
   - Ensure port 8000 is not in use: `lsof -ti:8000`

2. **Frontend can't connect to backend**
   - Ensure backend is running on port 8000
   - Check CORS settings in FastAPI (should allow localhost:3000)
   - Verify backend health: visit `http://localhost:8000` in browser

3. **OpenAI API errors**
   - Verify your API key is valid and has credits
   - Check OpenAI API status at https://status.openai.com/
   - Ensure you have access to GPT models

4. **Virtual environment issues**
   - Make sure you're in the backend directory
   - Try recreating the virtual environment:
     ```bash
     rm -rf .venv
     python -m venv .venv
     source .venv/bin/activate
     pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
     ```

### Port Conflicts
If you need to change the default ports:

**Backend**: Edit `main_sqlite.py` and change the port in `uvicorn.run(app, host="0.0.0.0", port=8000)`
**Frontend**: Set `PORT=3001` environment variable before running `npm start`

### Database Issues
- SQLite database is created automatically in the backend directory
- If you encounter database errors, delete `chatbot.db` and restart the backend
- Check file permissions on the backend directory

## 🚀 Production Deployment

### Backend
1. Use a production WSGI server like **Gunicorn** or **Uvicorn**
2. Set up environment variables securely
3. Consider using PostgreSQL for production database
4. Enable HTTPS and proper security headers

### Frontend
1. Build the production version: `npm run build`
2. Serve static files with **Nginx** or **Apache**
3. Update API base URL for production backend

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📞 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue in the repository.

---

**Happy Chatting! 🎉**
   ```

2. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

3. Create a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

4. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. Create environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

6. Edit `.env` file with your credentials:
   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   MYSQL_HOST=localhost
   MYSQL_USER=root
   MYSQL_PASSWORD=your_mysql_password
   MYSQL_DATABASE=chatbot_db
   MYSQL_PORT=3306
   ```

7. Run the backend:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

#### Option B: SQLite Version (Easy Setup - Recommended for Development)

1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Create a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements_sqlite.txt
   ```

4. Create environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env_sqlite.example .env
   ```

5. Edit `.env` file with your OpenAI API key:
   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   DATABASE_URL=chatbot.db
   ```

6. Run the backend:
   ```bash
   python main_sqlite.py
   ```

## Quick Start

### Option A: MySQL Version
```bash
./start.sh
```

### Option B: SQLite Version (No Database Server Required)
```bash
./start_sqlite.sh
```

Both options will start the backend and frontend servers automatically.

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

The frontend will start on `http://localhost:3000`

## API Endpoints

### Chat
- `POST /chat` - Send a message and get AI response
- `GET /conversations/{id}/messages` - Get conversation history
- `POST /conversations` - Create a new conversation

### Health Check
- `GET /` - API status check

## Usage

1. Start both backend and frontend servers
2. Open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser
3. Start chatting with the AI assistant
4. Conversations are automatically saved to the database
5. Use "New Chat" to start a fresh conversation

## Database Schema

### conversations
- `id` (INT, PRIMARY KEY)
- `user_id` (VARCHAR)
- `created_at` (TIMESTAMP)

### messages
- `id` (INT, PRIMARY KEY)
- `conversation_id` (INT, FOREIGN KEY)
- `role` (ENUM: 'user', 'assistant')
- `content` (TEXT)
- `created_at` (TIMESTAMP)

## Development

### Running in Development Mode

Backend (with auto-reload):
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
```

Frontend (with hot reload):
```bash
npm start
```

### Building for Production

Frontend:
```bash
npm run build
```

Backend:
```bash
# The FastAPI app can be deployed using various methods
# Example with Gunicorn:
pip install gunicorn
gunicorn main:app -w 4 -k uvicorn.workers.UvicornWorker
```

## Customization

### Modifying AI Behavior
Edit the system message in `backend/chat_service.py`:
```python
formatted_messages = [
    {"role": "system", "content": "Your custom system message here"}
]
```

### Styling Changes
The application uses custom CSS for styling. You can modify the styles in `src/index.css` to customize the appearance:

- `.chat-container` - Main chat layout
- `.chat-header` - Header styling
- `.message-bubble` - Message containers
- `.message-content` - Individual message styling
- `.input-area` - Input section styling

The CSS includes responsive design breakpoints for mobile devices.

### Adding Features
- User authentication
- File uploads
- Voice messages
- Multiple conversation threads
- Message reactions

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CORS Errors**: Make sure the backend CORS settings include your frontend URL
2. **Database Connection**: Verify MySQL is running and credentials are correct
3. **OpenAI API**: Check your API key and usage limits
4. **Port Conflicts**: Ensure ports 3000 and 8000 are available

### Logs
- Backend logs appear in the terminal where you run `python main.py`
- Frontend errors appear in the browser console
- Database errors are logged by the backend

## License

MIT License - feel free to use this project as a starting point for your own chatbot applications.
